The story of “Tur and Salm murder Iraj” is one filled with family rivalry and hatred,
intrigued are we? Let me take you back to where it all began...
A man named Faridun had three sons named: Salm, Tur and Iraj. Faridun tells his sons:
“Salm I give you rule over the West and they all will bow down to you as lord.
Tur I give you rule over the Turkman’s and the land of Chin,
and there they will all hail you as king. For my youngest precious son, Iraj,
I give you all of Iran and the majesty and crown of chiefs.”
Naturally, when you’re youngest brother gets more of the kingdom than you, you become angry
Salm on the left and brother Tur on the right, become so angry
that come up with a plan, a master plan to deal with their younger brother Iraj.
We can see here that the brothers are full of guile,
which is used as a powerful weapon and driving force of this story
and as you can see in this image, leads to a chair being thrown!
but we’ll get to that part later. So Salm and Tur team up to create an envoy,
both in their hearts ready to go to war against their youngest brother.
Iraj, being an honest young ruler finds out that his brothers are angry with him
and decides he wants to go and see them to fix things! (Little does he know that this is not what they had in mind...)
Iraj then sets out to visit his brothers with a letter in hand from their father Feridun.
The letter stating: “He hath a right to love and tenderness. Hold him in honour, and repent yourselves;
As I have fed his body feed his soul, and after he hath been with you awhile
Send my beloved one back to me.” Which lets be real for a second,
if you have ever gone to your siblings with mom or dads stamp of approval on you,
you know that this never helps fix the problem.
So with his letter in hand Iraj sets out to see his brothers.
Now, where this story starts to get interesting
is when the troops shown all along the outside of this manuscript
framing the middle action of this image start to get chatty. Having overheard his troops
Salm became even more vengeful because he found out that they think Iraj is deserving of being King!
So, that next morning Iraj meets with his brothers Salm and Tur in his tent.
The brothers confront Iraj, asking him why he thinks he deserves to be king
when he was just the youngest? Iraj replies that he “doesn’t want the crown,
he wants there to be no feud between them and that he wants to make peace.”
I’m sure you can guess by this picture that their response isn’t positive to that comment...
Filled with anger, writer Laurie Pierce would even say filled with a kind of demon, Salm picks up a chair
and strikes Iraj with it. Iraj clearly depicted PLEADING for his life asks his brothers to show mercy on him.
asks his brothers to show mercy on him.“Canst thou approve and reconcile these twain-
To be a murderer and live thyself? Oh! hurt not e’en the poor grain-dragging ant,
For it hath thy life, and sweet life is a joy!” Salm and Tur ignore Iraj's plea
and Tur taking a dagger out of his boot stabs Iraj in the heart and beheads him.
A key element of this story is the anger and guile the brothers feel towards their brother.
So overwhelmed the rulers act out in rage, ignoring their moral values.
Iraj, I believe, represents an ideal of what noble kingship should like,
even though his life ended by him being murdered by his brothers.